README.md, before:

Glaxnimate
=======================================

About
---------------------------------------

A simple vector graphics animation program.


Dependencies
---------------------------------------

* C++17 compliant compiler
* Qt5 (qtbase) >= 5.12
* CMake >= 3.5
* Python3
* ZLib
* Potrace
* libav (libavformat, libswscale, libavcodec, libavutil) >= 59


Getting the Latest Code
---------------------------------------

You can find the code on [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate).

To clone with git:

    git clone --recursive https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate.git


Building
---------------------------------------

### Generic Overview

If you are building from git, ensure your submodules are up to date

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Standard CMake build commands work

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make -j 4 # This uses 4 cores to compile

It will produce the executable `bin/glaxnimate` relative to the build directory


### Deb-based systems (Ubuntu, Debian, etc)

Install the dependencies:

    apt-get install -y g++ cmake qtbase5-dev qttools5-dev libpython3-dev zlib1g-dev libpotrace-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavcodec-dev libavutil-dev

The generic `cmake` commands listed above should work.


### MacOS

Install the dependencies with homebrew:

    brew install cmake qt python potrace ffmpeg

Build with `cmake`, specifying the Qt installation path:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. -DQt5_DIR="$(brew --prefix qt@5)/lib/cmake/Qt5" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="$(brew --prefix qt)/lib/cmake/Qt5Designer"
    make


### Windows

Install [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/), select "Mingw-w64 64 bit" when asked, and run these commands on a it:

    # Set up dependencies
    pacman --noconfirm -Sy
    pacman --noconfirm -Su
    # Restart msys2 before continuing
    pacman  --noconfirm  -S \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-qt5 \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-zlib \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-cmake \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-python \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg  \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-potrace  \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-toolchain \
        make

    # Build
    # cd to where the code is
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake.exe .. \
        -DQt5_DIR=/mingw64/lib/cmake/Qt5 \
        -DZLIB_LIBRARY=/mingw64/lib/libz.a \
        -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="/mingw64/lib/" \
        -DZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR=/mingw64/include \
        -G "MSYS Makefiles"
    make

    # Copy library files because windows is weird like that
    windeployqt.exe bin/glaxnimate.exe
    cp /mingw64/bin/*.dll bin
    cp ./external/Qt-Color-Widgets/libQtColorWidgets.dll bin
    

### Android

Note that these instructions have been tested on an Ubuntu host, on different
systems things might vary.

#### Setting up Java

Ensure you have the JVM and JDK installed on your system.

    sudo apt install default-jdk

#### Installing Qt

See also <https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/android-getting-started.html>.

Download the Qt Installer for the open source edition 
<https://www.qt.io/download-open-source>.

For some reson Qt wants you to have an account even if you install 
the open source version so you might have to set that up;

Install Qt Creator and Qt 5 Android. 
Qt versions in the 5.12.* line should work, some newer Qt versions have issues with the
android build tools so it's better to stick with 5.12.

Select "Custom Installation", then on the following page check
Qt > Qt 5.12.11 (or whatever version you prefer) > Android.
You can also install additional components such as Qt for Desktop and such.

Accept the licenses and proceed to install.

#### Setting up Qt for Android

Once Qt is installed, you can download and install the Android development tools
from Qt Creator.

You can follow the instructions from here:
<https://doc.qt.io/qtcreator/creator-developing-android.html#specifying-android-device-settings>.

From Qt Creator:

* Tools > Options... > Devices > Android
* Click "Setup SDK"
* Install additional packages if prompted (you might need to accept some licenses)
* Wait for everything to be downloaded and installed
* Under "SDK Manager" (which is at the bottom of the dialog) 
    * click the "Install" checkbox for one of the available images
        (eg: Android 11 > Google API Atom x86 System Image)
    * click "Apply" on the side (not the one at the bottom that closes the dialog)
    * after it's downloaded, you can click OK to close the dialog

#### Building

TODO CMake

You need to know the paths for Qt and Android stuff

    mkdir build
    cd build

    QT_VERSION=5.12.11
    ANDROID_ABI=x86
    ANDROID_ABI_QT=x86
    ANDROID_HOME="$HOME/Android/Sdk"
    QT_HOME="$HOME/Qt/$QT_VERSION"
    ANDROID_PLATFORM=29
    Qt5_android="$QT_HOME/android_$ANDROID_ABI_QT"

    JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/default-java
    ANDROID_SDK="$ANDROID_HOME"
    ANDROID_NDK="$(echo "$ANDROID_SDK/ndk/"*)"
    CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="$ANDROID_NDK/build/cmake/android.toolchain.cmake"

    cmake \
        -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=$CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE \
        -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="$Qt5_android/lib/cmake" \
        -DCMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH="$Qt5_android" \
        -DANDROID_STL=c++_shared \
        -DANDROID_ABI="$ANDROID_ABI" \
        -DANDROID_NDK="$ANDROID_NDK" \
        -DANDROID_SDK="$ANDROID_SDK" \
        -DANDROID_PLATFORM="$ANDROID_PLATFORM" \
        -DJAVA_HOME="$JAVA_HOME" \
        ..

    make -j8

#### Running

There are some utility `make` targets to run the apk

    # List available virtual devices (you need to create them separately)
    make android_avd_list
    # Start virtual device ("device" is from `make android_avd_list`)
    make android_avd_start DEVICE="device"

    # Build the APK
    make glaxnimate_apk -j8
    # Install and run the APK on the running AVD
    make android_install
    # Attach to the output
    make android_log

Once you have an AVD running (or a debug phone connected) you can run a single line:

    make glaxnimate_apk -j8 && make android_install && make android_log

#### Troubleshooting

**Could not determine java version**

Qt downloads an old version of `gradle`, so if you get an error that your
Java version cannot be recognize find the file `gradle-wrapper.properties`
and update it to version 5.1 or later.

**Incompatible target / Undefined reference / Redefinition**

Sometimes `qmake` messes up the build, the best option is to remove the build
directory created by Qt Creator and rebuild.

**Invalid MinSdkVersion**

Depending on which version of the Android SDK you have, you might have to select 
a different value in `src/android/android/AndroidManifest.xml`.


**libc++.so not found**

The Android toolkit stuff has some wrong paths, it can be fixed like this:

    sudo mkdir /opt/android 
    sudo ln -s $HOME/Android/Sdk/ndk/21.1.6352462/ /opt/android/android-ndk-r19c
    
Where `$HOME/Android/Sdk/ndk/21.1.6352462/` is the directory that Qt creator 
used to install the Android NDK, and `/opt/android/android-ndk-r19c` is the 
directory mentioned in the error message.

**Cannot set up Android, not building an APK / Application binary is not in output directory**

Sometimes it does that, building again usually fixes it.


Contacts
---------------------------------------

* [Telegram (Chat)](https://t.me/Glaxnimate)
* [GitLab (Code, Issues)](https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate)
* [User Manual](https://glaxnimate.mattbas.org)


License
---------------------------------------

GPLv3 or later, see COPYING.

Copyright (C) 2020 Mattia Basaglia

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Better android CMake helper script

README.md, after:

Glaxnimate
=======================================

About
---------------------------------------

A simple vector graphics animation program.


Dependencies
---------------------------------------

* C++17 compliant compiler
* Qt5 (qtbase) >= 5.12
* CMake >= 3.5
* Python3
* ZLib
* Potrace
* libav (libavformat, libswscale, libavcodec, libavutil) >= 59


Getting the Latest Code
---------------------------------------

You can find the code on [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate).

To clone with git:

    git clone --recursive https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate.git


Building
---------------------------------------

### Generic Overview

If you are building from git, ensure your submodules are up to date

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Standard CMake build commands work

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make -j 4 # This uses 4 cores to compile

It will produce the executable `bin/glaxnimate` relative to the build directory


### Deb-based systems (Ubuntu, Debian, etc)

Install the dependencies:

    apt-get install -y g++ cmake qtbase5-dev qttools5-dev libpython3-dev zlib1g-dev libpotrace-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavcodec-dev libavutil-dev

The generic `cmake` commands listed above should work.


### MacOS

Install the dependencies with homebrew:

    brew install cmake qt python potrace ffmpeg

Build with `cmake`, specifying the Qt installation path:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. -DQt5_DIR="$(brew --prefix qt@5)/lib/cmake/Qt5" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="$(brew --prefix qt)/lib/cmake/Qt5Designer"
    make


### Windows

Install [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/), select "Mingw-w64 64 bit" when asked, and run these commands on a it:

    # Set up dependencies
    pacman --noconfirm -Sy
    pacman --noconfirm -Su
    # Restart msys2 before continuing
    pacman  --noconfirm  -S \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-qt5 \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-zlib \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-cmake \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-python \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg  \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-potrace  \
        mingw-w64-x86_64-toolchain \
        make

    # Build
    # cd to where the code is
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake.exe .. \
        -DQt5_DIR=/mingw64/lib/cmake/Qt5 \
        -DZLIB_LIBRARY=/mingw64/lib/libz.a \
        -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="/mingw64/lib/" \
        -DZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR=/mingw64/include \
        -G "MSYS Makefiles"
    make

    # Copy library files because windows is weird like that
    windeployqt.exe bin/glaxnimate.exe
    cp /mingw64/bin/*.dll bin
    cp ./external/Qt-Color-Widgets/libQtColorWidgets.dll bin
    

### Android

Note that these instructions have been tested on an Ubuntu host, on different
systems things might vary.

#### Setting up Java

Ensure you have the JVM and JDK installed on your system.

    sudo apt install default-jdk

#### Installing Qt

See also <https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/android-getting-started.html>.

Download the Qt Installer for the open source edition 
<https://www.qt.io/download-open-source>.

For some reson Qt wants you to have an account even if you install 
the open source version so you might have to set that up;

Install Qt Creator and Qt 5 Android. 
Qt versions in the 5.12.* line should work, some newer Qt versions have issues with the
android build tools so it's better to stick with 5.12.

Select "Custom Installation", then on the following page check
Qt > Qt 5.12.11 (or whatever version you prefer) > Android.
You can also install additional components such as Qt for Desktop and such.

Accept the licenses and proceed to install.

#### Setting up Qt for Android

Once Qt is installed, you can download and install the Android development tools
from Qt Creator.

You can follow the instructions from here:
<https://doc.qt.io/qtcreator/creator-developing-android.html#specifying-android-device-settings>.

From Qt Creator:

* Tools > Options... > Devices > Android
* Click "Setup SDK"
* Install additional packages if prompted (you might need to accept some licenses)
* Wait for everything to be downloaded and installed
* Under "SDK Manager" (which is at the bottom of the dialog) 
    * click the "Install" checkbox for one of the available images
        (eg: Android 11 > Google API Atom x86 System Image)
    * click "Apply" on the side (not the one at the bottom that closes the dialog)
    * after it's downloaded, you can click OK to close the dialog

#### Building

You need to know the paths for Qt and Android stuff, or use `cmake_helper.py` to simplify the process

    mkdir build
    cd build

    ../src/android/tools/cmake_helper.py --abi x86 --qt 5.12.11 ..
    make -j8

#### Running

There are some utility `make` targets to run the apk

    # List available virtual devices (you need to create them separately)
    make android_avd_list
    # Start virtual device ("device" is from `make android_avd_list`)
    make android_avd_start DEVICE="device"

    # Build the APK
    make glaxnimate_apk -j8
    # Install and run the APK on the running AVD
    make android_install
    # Attach to the output
    make android_log

Once you have an AVD running (or a debug phone connected) you can run a single line:

    make glaxnimate_apk -j8 && make android_install && make android_log

#### Troubleshooting

**Could not determine java version**

Qt downloads an old version of `gradle`, so if you get an error that your
Java version cannot be recognize find the file `gradle-wrapper.properties`
and update it to version 5.1 or later.

**Incompatible target / Undefined reference / Redefinition**

Sometimes `qmake` messes up the build, the best option is to remove the build
directory created by Qt Creator and rebuild.

**Invalid MinSdkVersion**

Depending on which version of the Android SDK you have, you might have to select 
a different value in `src/android/android/AndroidManifest.xml`.


**libc++.so not found**

The Android toolkit stuff has some wrong paths, it can be fixed like this:

    sudo mkdir /opt/android 
    sudo ln -s $HOME/Android/Sdk/ndk/21.1.6352462/ /opt/android/android-ndk-r19c
    
Where `$HOME/Android/Sdk/ndk/21.1.6352462/` is the directory that Qt creator 
used to install the Android NDK, and `/opt/android/android-ndk-r19c` is the 
directory mentioned in the error message.

**Cannot set up Android, not building an APK / Application binary is not in output directory**

Sometimes it does that, building again usually fixes it.


Contacts
---------------------------------------

* [Telegram (Chat)](https://t.me/Glaxnimate)
* [GitLab (Code, Issues)](https://gitlab.com/mattbas/glaxnimate)
* [User Manual](https://glaxnimate.mattbas.org)


License
---------------------------------------

GPLv3 or later, see COPYING.

Copyright (C) 2020 Mattia Basaglia

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
