docs/docs/manual/shapes.md, before:

Authors: Mattia Basaglia

# Shapes

## Group

![Group shape](/img/screenshots/shapes/group.png)

A Group shape is a shape that contains other shapes.

It can define transformations and opacity for the contained group.

### Editing

When a group is selected and editable, there some handles around its bounding box
that allow editing of various properties:

The X-shaped handle in the middle allows you to change the anchor point around
which other transformations are performed.

The Circle on the top allows you to rotate the group.<br/>
Holding Ctrl while dragging it will snap the rotation to increments of 15 degrees.

The Squares on the corners change X and Y scale at the same time.

The Diamonds on the edges change scale for one component at the time.<br/>
Holding Ctrl while dragging them will preserve the aspect ratio.

## Actual Shapes

These define the actual shapes to draw, but no styling information.

### Rectangle

![Rectangle shape](/img/screenshots/shapes/rect.png)

#### Editing

When a rectangle shape is being edited, it shows the following handles:

The Square handle in the middle shows the center of the rectangle, dragging it moves
the rectangle around.

The Square handles at the corners allow changing the size of the rectangle.<br/>
Simply dragging one of them will keep the other in place and change where the center is
along with the size.<br/>
Holding Shift while dragging will keep the center in place and move the other corner
the opposite direction to the one being dragged.<br/>
Holding Ctrl will lock the handle in one of 3 possible directions:

* Moving horizontally from its starting position
* Moving vertically from its starting position
* Moving diagonally to keep the aspect ratio of the rectangle.

The final handle is a circle in the top right corner, that allows setting the "rounded"
factor of the rectangle:

![Rounded Rectangle](/img/screenshots/shapes/rect_rounded.png)


### Ellipse

![Ellipse](/img/screenshots/shapes/ellipse.png)

The handles here work the same as for [Rectangle](#rectangle),
minus the roundness one which is not present for ellipses.

### Path

![Path](/img/screenshots/shapes/path.png)

This represents an arbitrary bezier shape.

#### Editing

When editing a bezier path, you'll see two types of handles:

* Point handles: lay on the outline of the path, they come in different shapes.
* Tangent handles: they are connected to the point handles, they are always circles.

The way bezier curves work is that it creates a curve between two point, with
the two other control points "pulling" on the shape to give its curvyness.

![Bezier example](/img/screenshots/shapes/bezier.png)

In the image above you can see a couple examples of bezier curves:
they both have the starting and end points, and two other handles in between
than pull the shape in different direction giving it its final shape.

The Point handles come in different types:

![Bezier points](/img/screenshots/shapes/bezier-points.png)

* Corner points appear as diamonds and leave the tangents free to roam
* Smooth points appear as squares and keep the same angle on both the tangents
* Symmetrical points appear as squares and keep both tangents on the same

### PolyStar

![PolyStar](/img/screenshots/shapes/star.png)

This shape can be used to draw stars and regular polygons.

#### Editing

When a star shape is being edited, it shows the following handles:

The Square handle in the middle shows the center of the star, dragging it moves
the star around.

The Square handle near the corner defines angle and radius for the star.
Holding Ctrl while dragging it will change the radius without affecting the angle.

If the polystar is a star (as opposed to a regular polygon) there's an additional
Diamond handle which is used to change the secondary radius of the star.

#### Interactions

Dragging on the point handles moves them, and their related tangents with them.

Ctrl-clicking on a point handle will cycle its type between Corner and Smooth.

Dragging on the tangents moves them (Smooth and Symmetrical nodes will cause the opposite
tangent to be moved as well).

If you hold Ctrl while dragging a tangent handle, you can change its length
while keeping its angle unchanged.

If you hold Shift while dragging a tangent handle, the other tangent will be moved
to keep the angle between them constant.

## Style Shapes

These add visual elements to other shapes.

## Fill

Adds a fill color to the other shapes in the same group.
This can be changed using the [fill style view](ui/docks.md#fill).

## Stroke

Adds an outline to the other shapes in the same group.
This can be changed using the [stroke style view](ui/docks.md#stroke).

# Layers

## Shape Layer

![Shape Layer](/img/screenshots/shapes/group.png)

Shape layers are layers that can contain shapes.

### Difference between Group shapes and Layers

Groups shapes and Shape Layers have very similar functionality.

The main difference is that with layers parenting doesn't change the drawing order.

For example you could have two layers with the same parent layer and a third unrelated layer
between them. This is not possible with group shapes.

## Empty Layer

This is only used for parenting. It has its own transform which is applied to any children.

## Solid Color Layer

This is a layer that appears as a rectangle with a solid color.

Commit message:

show/hide layers based on their frame range

docs/docs/manual/shapes.md, after:

Authors: Mattia Basaglia

# Shapes

## Group

![Group shape](/img/screenshots/shapes/group.png)

A Group shape is a shape that contains other shapes.

It can define transformations and opacity for the contained group.

### Editing

When a group is selected and editable, there some handles around its bounding box
that allow editing of various properties:

The X-shaped handle in the middle allows you to change the anchor point around
which other transformations are performed.

The Circle on the top allows you to rotate the group.<br/>
Holding Ctrl while dragging it will snap the rotation to increments of 15 degrees.

The Squares on the corners change X and Y scale at the same time.

The Diamonds on the edges change scale for one component at the time.<br/>
Holding Ctrl while dragging them will preserve the aspect ratio.

### Layer

A Layer is a special kind of group with a couple extra properties.

Top level layers can have other top-level layers set as their parents,
inheriting their parent's transformations, this allows some more advanced layouts
for example you could have two layers with the same parent layer and a third unrelated layer
between them. This is not possible with plain group shapes.


## Actual Shapes

These define the actual shapes to draw, but no styling information.

### Rectangle

![Rectangle shape](/img/screenshots/shapes/rect.png)

#### Editing

When a rectangle shape is being edited, it shows the following handles:

The Square handle in the middle shows the center of the rectangle, dragging it moves
the rectangle around.

The Square handles at the corners allow changing the size of the rectangle.<br/>
Simply dragging one of them will keep the other in place and change where the center is
along with the size.<br/>
Holding Shift while dragging will keep the center in place and move the other corner
the opposite direction to the one being dragged.<br/>
Holding Ctrl will lock the handle in one of 3 possible directions:

* Moving horizontally from its starting position
* Moving vertically from its starting position
* Moving diagonally to keep the aspect ratio of the rectangle.

The final handle is a circle in the top right corner, that allows setting the "rounded"
factor of the rectangle:

![Rounded Rectangle](/img/screenshots/shapes/rect_rounded.png)


### Ellipse

![Ellipse](/img/screenshots/shapes/ellipse.png)

The handles here work the same as for [Rectangle](#rectangle),
minus the roundness one which is not present for ellipses.

### Path

![Path](/img/screenshots/shapes/path.png)

This represents an arbitrary bezier shape.

#### Editing

When editing a bezier path, you'll see two types of handles:

* Point handles: lay on the outline of the path, they come in different shapes.
* Tangent handles: they are connected to the point handles, they are always circles.

The way bezier curves work is that it creates a curve between two point, with
the two other control points "pulling" on the shape to give its curvyness.

![Bezier example](/img/screenshots/shapes/bezier.png)

In the image above you can see a couple examples of bezier curves:
they both have the starting and end points, and two other handles in between
than pull the shape in different direction giving it its final shape.

The Point handles come in different types:

![Bezier points](/img/screenshots/shapes/bezier-points.png)

* Corner points appear as diamonds and leave the tangents free to roam
* Smooth points appear as squares and keep the same angle on both the tangents
* Symmetrical points appear as squares and keep both tangents on the same

### PolyStar

![PolyStar](/img/screenshots/shapes/star.png)

This shape can be used to draw stars and regular polygons.

#### Editing

When a star shape is being edited, it shows the following handles:

The Square handle in the middle shows the center of the star, dragging it moves
the star around.

The Square handle near the corner defines angle and radius for the star.
Holding Ctrl while dragging it will change the radius without affecting the angle.

If the polystar is a star (as opposed to a regular polygon) there's an additional
Diamond handle which is used to change the secondary radius of the star.

#### Interactions

Dragging on the point handles moves them, and their related tangents with them.

Ctrl-clicking on a point handle will cycle its type between Corner and Smooth.

Dragging on the tangents moves them (Smooth and Symmetrical nodes will cause the opposite
tangent to be moved as well).

If you hold Ctrl while dragging a tangent handle, you can change its length
while keeping its angle unchanged.

If you hold Shift while dragging a tangent handle, the other tangent will be moved
to keep the angle between them constant.

## Style Shapes

These add visual elements to other shapes.

## Fill

Adds a fill color to the other shapes in the same group.
This can be changed using the [fill style view](ui/docks.md#fill).

## Stroke

Adds an outline to the other shapes in the same group.
This can be changed using the [stroke style view](ui/docks.md#stroke).
